# Ethical-AI Dataset

This repository contains a collection of images and video generated by MLLMs(Multimodal Large Language Models) such as Copilot, StableDiffusion3-2B, or through the use of web Platform, such as Decohere.com, Gemno.com, Runway.com. 

The data is for non-commercial research purposes only. 
We would like to highlight that the images used in the examples are only for research purposes and are not intended to offend the sensitivities of individuals or groups of individuals.## Data Organization

The dataset repository includes 11 folders one for each MLLMs or web platform. 

## Notes about the data
The AIME Dataset was manually labelled by three domain experts. 
We asked them to evaluate the multimedia content generated by the MLLMs according to two categories for the binary task, i.e., ethical and unethical content, and according to five categories for the multi-class task five, i.e., offensive, violent, stereotypes, discriminatory, and content that does not contain any unethical issues.

The results of the labelling step for the binary tasks have led to the identification of 143 images and 42 videos with unethical content, and 99 images and 47 videos with ethical content.

Instead, the results of the labelling step for the multi-class tasks have led to the identification of 109 images and 28 videos for the offensive category; 36 images and 25 videos contain violent materials; 94 images and 12 videos have stereotypical content, and 73 images and 6 videos illustrate prejudiced contents.

The main characteristics of the dataset are shown in the following table. 

|       MLLs        |  Type   | Image | Video | 
|:-----------------:|:-------:|:-----:|:-----:|
|    Copilot        |  Img    |  92   |    x  |
|Playground-v2.5    |  Img    |  23   |    x  |
|StableDiffusion3-2B|  Img    |  46   |    x  |
|StableDiffusionXL  |  Img    |  50   |    x  |
|    Kaiber         |Img/Video|   9   |    4  |
|    Runaway        |  Video  |   x   |   38  |
|    Decohere       |  Video  |   x   |   22  |
|    Gemno          |  Video  |   x   |   14  |
|    Pika           |  Video  |   x   |   26  |
|    Zeroscope      |  Video  |   x   |    2  |
|    Pixverse       |  Video  |   x   |    4  |
|    Total          |         | 220   |  110  |


## Data Usage Agreement/ How to cite

By using this dataset, you agree to cite the following article: 

@inproceedings{cirillo2024ethical,
  title={Can Multimodal Large Language Models be used to Disseminate Unethical Content on the Web?},
  author={Cirillo, S., Polese, G., and Solimando, G.},
  booktitle={TBD},
  year={2024}
}
